SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 15th, A
SIGNIFICANT SETBACK FO
ORGANIZED LABOR.
AUTO WORKERS IN TENNESSEE VOTE
NOT TO UNIONIZE.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, HO
MOBILE TECHNOLOGY IS
TRANSFORMING LIVE IN AFRICA.
AND CORPORATIONS MAKING MAJO
CHANGES TO 401(k) PLANS.
WHAT IT COULD MEAN FOR YOU
NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>> GOOD EVENING
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
ORGANIZED LABOR HAS SUFFERED
ANOTHER BIG SETBACK.
AUTO WORKERS AT A VOLKSWAGEN
PLANT REJECTED A PLAN TO BE PART
OF THE UAW
IT WOULD HAVE BEEN THE FIRST
TIME THE UAW WOULD HAVE GAINED A
FOOTHOLD IN ANY OF THE 1
FOREIGN AUTO ASSEMBLY PLANTS I
THE SOUTH.
VOLKSWAGEN DID NOT LOBBY AGAINST
THE PROPOSAL
IT HAD PLANNED TO MAKE UNION
REPRESENTATIVES PART OF TH
GERMAN-STYLE BOARD
PRIOR TO THE VOTE, THEY WARNED
IT WOULD HAVE DAMAGED ECONOMIC
GROWTH IN THE REGION
WE'LL HAVE MORE ABOUT THE STOR
RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY
>>> THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION HAS
PROPOSED NEW GUIDELINES FO
ACCOUNTS FOR MARIJUANA
BUSINESSES OPERATING LEGALLY I
COLORADO AND WASHINGTON STATE.
BUT THE AMERICAN BANKERS
ASSOCIATION SAYS BANKS REMAI
VULNERABLE FOR VIOLATING FEDERAL
DRUG LAWS.
THE NEW GUIDELINES ARE T
IMPROVE SAFETY
MARIJUANA BUSINESSES WOULD NOT
HAVE TO KEEP SO MUCH CASH ON
HAND
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS ALS
SHA THE NEW PROPOSALS WILL HEL
STATES COLLECT TAXES FROM LEGA
POT SALES.
THE PRESIDENT HAS ANNOUNCED
$100 MILLION AID PACKAGE T
CALIFORNIA FORMERS WHO'VE LOST
LIVESTOCK BECAUSE OF THE
PROLONGED DROUGHT THERE.
THE WORST IN 100 YEARS
AFTER TOURING A FARM, TH
PRESIDENT PREDICTED THAT
WEATHER-RELATED DISASTERS WILL
BECOME COSTLIER AND HARSHE
BECAUSE OF CLIMATE CHANGE.
EXPECTED TO ALLOCATE $1 BILLIO
FOR CLIMATE RESEARCH IN TH
BUDGET THE PRESIDENT PLANS T
SUBMIT TO CONGRESS
>>> SECRETARY OF STATE JOH
KERRY SAID THE UNITED STATES AND
CHINA WILL WORK TOGETHER TO CURB
THE EMISSION OF GREENHOUSE GASES
THAT CONTRIBUTE TO CLIMATE
CHANGE
KERRY SAID THE TWO COUNTRIES
WOULD COOPERATE TO IMPROVE THE
EFFICIENCY OF BUILDINGS AN
REDUCE THE USE OF HEAVY VEHICLES
TO DECREASE CARBON EMISSIONS
>> THIS IS A UNIQUE COOPERATIV
EFFORT BETWEEN CHINA AND THE
UNITED STATES.
AND WE HAVE HOPES THAT IT WILL
HELP TO SET AN EXAMPLE FOR
GLOBAL LEADERSHIP AND GLOBAL
SERIOUSNESS ON THE ISSUE OF NEXT
YEAR'S CLIMATE CHANG
NEGOTIATION.
>> KERRY ALSO MET WITH CHINESE
BLOGGERS WHO EXPRESSED CONCERN
ABOUT INTERNET CENSORSHIP.
HE EXPRESSED HIS SUPPORT SAYIN
THEY WOULD BE STRONGER WIT
GREATER FREEDOM ON THE INTERNET.
>>> THE UNITED NATIONS MEDIATO
OVERSEEING THE PEACE TALKS
BETWEEN THE ASSAD REGIME AND
OPPOSITION TODAY ACKNOWLEDGE
LITTLE PROGRESS HAVE BEEN HEAD
BUT THEY HAVE AGREED TO AN
AGENDA FOR A THIRD ROUND O
NEGOTIATIONS
NO DATE HAS BEEN SET
THE WAR IN SYRIA HAS CLAIMED
140,000 LIVES.
IN CALIFORNIA YESTERDAY,
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID HE WOUL
SEEK APPROVAL OF AN AID PACKAG
TO THAT COUNTRY.
>>> CHANCELLOR ANGELA MERKEL
SAID SHE WANTS A NEW DAT
THIS AFTER SPYING FROM THE U.S
NSA.
HER CELL PHONE WAS REPORTEDL
TAPPED
SHE IS TO VISIT FRANCE NEX
WEEK
>>> AN EIGHT FOOT LONG TUS
ESTIMATED TO BE BETWEEN 16 AND
60,000 YEARS OLD HAS BEEN FOUN
AT A CONSTRUCTION SITE I
SEATTLE.
THE TUSK IS THOUGHT TO BE FROM A
MAMMOTH.
AN ANCIENT CREATURE.
WHERE IT WILL BE STUDIED AND
THEN PUT ON DISPLAY.
>>> AND NASA'S LABORATORY SAID
IT HAS SOLVED THE MYSTERY OF
WHAT LOOKS LIKE A DOUGHNUT THA
APPEARED ON THE SURFACE OF MARS.
THESE WERE BEFORE AND AFTE
PICTURES OF THE SAME SPOT TAKE
13 DAYS APART.
NOW SCIENTISTS SAY THEY KNOW
WHAT THE OBJECT ON THE RIGHT IS,
AND IT'S NOT A DOUGHNUT.
INSTEAD, THEY SAY IT'S JUST
SMALL PIECE OF ROCK THAT BROKE
OFF AND PUSHED IT INTO VIEW.
OTHERS HAVE SPECULATED THAT TH
OBJECT MIGHT BE A FUNGUS-LIK
ORGANISM
WHICH MEANS THERE WAS LIFE O
THE PLANET
>>> WE WANT TO GO MORE DEEPL
INTO THE IMPORTANT UNION VOTE IN
TENNESSEE.
FOR MORE WE'RE JOINED BY JIM
WHO'S BEEN COVERING THE STOR
FOR BLOOMBERG NEWS
WHY WAS THIS SO SIGNIFICANT?
>> IT WOULD HAVE BEEN A FIRS
FOR THE UNION, FOR THE UAW T
ACTUALLY ORGANIZE A PLANT IN THE
SOUTH.
A FOREIGN-OWNED CAR MAKER.
AND THAT WAS THE SIGNIFICANCE.
IT WAS SEEN AS A CHANCE FOR THEM
TO GET A FOOTHOLD IN A REGIO
THAT'S TRADITIONALLY REALL
DIFFICULT FOR UNION ORGANIZING
AND THAT WAS PRIMARILY THE
SIGNIFICANCE THERE
>> MOST OF THESE ARE RIGHT T
WORK STATES.
WHAT WERE THE OUTSIDE FORCES
THAT WERE USING THIS AS SORT O
THEIR BIG BATTLE GROUND?
>> WELL, YOU HAD REPUBLICA
POLITICIANS.
SENATOR CORKER AND STATE
SENATORS AS WELL, STAT
POLITICIANS.
THEIR ARGUMENT WAS THAT THIS
WOULD BASICALLY MAKE THE
STATEMENTS COMPETITIVE
COMPANIES WOULD LOOK A
TENNESSEE AND THINK THAT'S A
HIGHER CHALLENGE I COULD B
FACING A UNION
I'LL GO TO SOUTH CAROLINA OR
ALABAMA INSTEAD.
SO THEY PITCHED THAT LINE PRETTY
HARD
IT WAS ALSO SOME INTERES
GROUPS, WASHINGTON-BASED
INTEREST GROUPS THAT WERE USED
THE VOTE AS A PROXY TO KIND OF
ATTACK THE UNION FOR CONNECTIONS
WITH THE PRESIDENT
>> SO EXPLAIN ABOUT THE IDEA O
THE WORKERS COUNCIL.
VOLKSWAGEN SAW THIS VOTE AS
WAY TO GET TO SOMETHING THEY D
IN OTHER PLANTS.
WHAT IS THAT
>> THIS IS THE ONLY MAJO
VOLKSWAGEN FACILITY THAT DOESN'T
HAVE UNION AFFILIATION
THE WORKS COUNCIL WAS A GERMAN
SORT OF CREATION THAT GIVES TH
EMPLOYEES A SEAT AT THE TABLE IN
TERMS OF DAY-TO-DAY OPERATIONS
AND STAFFING ISSUES, THINGS LIKE
THAT
NOT FOR COLLECTIVE BARGAINING.
THAT'S THE UNION'S JOB
IN GERMANY YOU HAVE WORK COUNCIL
AND UNIONS
THERE'S NO WORK COUNCILS IN TH
U.S.
THIS WAS AN EXPERIMENT IN A WAY.
THE VOTE WAS TO JOIN THE UAW FOR
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING.
THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UA
AND VOLKSWAGEN IS THEY WOULD
NEGOTIATE THE FORMATION OF A
COUNCIL.
>> VOLKSWAGEN WAS NOT PUSHIN
THE UNION.
IT JUST WANTS WHAT IT HA
EVERYWHERE ELSE.
>> YES
>> DOES VOLKSWAGEN HAVE A CHANCE
TO BUILD THAT ANY OTHER WAY?
OR IS IT ILLEGAL TO DO THA
WITHOUT HAVING A UNION
>> WELL, TALK TO LAWYERS
MOST SAY IT'S ILLEGAL TO DO IT
WITHOUT A UNION.
SO THAT WAS THE STEP YOU HAD T
TAKE
WHAT THEY CAN DO RIGHT NOW I
UNCLEAR.
THERE ARE OTHER TARGETS OF
OPPORTUNITY FOR THE UAW IN THE
SOUTH.
AND LIKELY THAT THEY'RE PROBABLY
GOING TO TRY AGAIN AT SOME OTHER
PLANTS MAYBE IN ALABAMA OR OTHER
STATES
>> SO THAT'S WHERE THE UAW I
GOING TO HAVE TO FOCUS NEXT?
>> I THINK THAT'S THEIR BEST
SHOT AT THIS POINT
THIS WAS A TOUGH LOSS BECAUS
THEY DID HAVE THE COMPAN
NEUTRAL, YOU KNOW, GIVING NO
RESISTANCE TO THE EFFORT
AND THEY COULDN'T TURN IT.
IT WAS A BIT OF A SURPRISE,
THINK, FOR PEOPLE DOWN THERE
WE TALKED TO WORKERS DOWN THER
MONDAY
THEY WERE CONFIDENCE THIS WA
GOING TO GO THEIR WAY.
I THINK IT WAS A DISAPPOINTMEN
FOR SURE
>> THANKS SO MUCH.
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT FEATURING IN-DEPTH
REPORTING FROM AROUND THE NATION
AND THE WORLD.
TONIGHT OUR FOCUS IS O
SOMETHING YOU HEAR VERY LITTLE
ABOUT FROM AFRICA.
THE TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCES THA
ARE TRANSFORMING LIFE THERE.
OUR REPORT FROM KENYA IS BY OU
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT MARTIN
SEMUNGAL
>> Reporter: DRIVE INTO TH
CAPITAL ANY DAY OF THE WEEK,
INTO NAIROBI'S BUSTLING STREET
AND SEE A NATION IN LOVE WIT
THE MOBILE PHONE
VIRTUALLY EVERYONE HAS ONE
IF THEY AREN'T TALKING ON IT
THEY ARE TEXTING WITH IT OR JUST
HOLDING IT
WHERE WOULD YOU BE WITHOUT IT?
>> MY LIFE WOULD DEFINITELY COME
TO A STOP.
>> Reporter: WHY
>> BECAUSE, OKAY, I DO A LOT O
STUFF WITH MY PHONE.
KEEP TRACK OF MY LIFE.
I MEET MY CLIENTS.
I CALL AND TEXT THEM
VERY IMPORTANT
>> Reporter: MOBILE PHONE USAG
IS EXPLODING HERE.
EVERYWHERE IN SUB-SAHARA
AFRICA, GROWTH OF 18% EVER
YEAR
THE POPULATION IN KENYA IS 4
MILLION.
ROUGHLY 30 MILLION HAVE CELL
PHONES
THE PHONE PHENOMENON IN KENY
ISN'T JUST ABOUT THE NUMBERS
IT'S HOW THEY USE THEIR PHONES
HERE
ONE STUDY SHOWED THAT MANY
KENYANS WOULD SACRIFICE FOOD AND
CLOTHING JUST TO RECHARGE THEI
PHONE CREDIT
>> INFLATION RUNNING HIGH AN
DISPOSAL INCOME REDUCES, PEOPL
SPEND JUST AS MUCH ON CELL
PHONES
BUT WOULD REDUCE THE QUANTIT
AND THE QUALITY OF THE FOOD THEY
EAT.
>> Reporter: BOB IS THE HEAD O
SAFARI COM WHICH HAS 17 MILLIO
OF KENYA'S 30 MILLION SU
VIBERS
>> HERE IN KENYA AND PROBABLY IN
MANY OTHER AFRICAN COUNTRIES
THE CELL PHONE IS A PRODUCTIVE
TOOL
IT'S NOT A LUXURY ITEM
>> Reporter: IT'S GONE WEL
BEYOND TALKING AND TEXTING O
SMF AS IT'S OFTEN CALLED HERE.
THE MOBILE PAYMENT SYSTEM IS I
ITS SEVENTH YEAR NOW
IT USES SIMPLE TEXTING
TECHNOLOGY AND IS THE MOST
DEVELOPED IN THE WORLD
YOU CAN TRANSFER MONEY TO ANYONE
IN KENYA
>> IF YOU ONLY HAVE 30 SHILLINGS
AND 30 SHILLINGS WILL GET YOU
BUS RIDE BACK HOME, ACTUALLY
YOU'D SPEND THAT 30 SHIMMINGS ON
BUYING AIR TIME RATHER THAN TH
BUS RIDE
IF YOU HAVE THE 30 SHILLINGS O
AIR TIME, YOU CAN THEN CAL
SOMEONE AND ASK FOR THE MONEY TO
BE SENT.
>> Reporter: THAT IS AN ENORMOUS
CONVENIENCE.
MANY KENYANS DON'T HAVE A BANK
ACCOUNT.
THE MAJORITY DO NOT HAVE CREDI
CARDS.
AND THEY LIVE IN RURAL, REMOTE
PLACES WHERE GETTING TO BANK I
DIFFICULT.
>> MOBILE TECHNOLOGY HAS BECOM
UBIQUITOUS
IT'S NO LONGER FOR CERTAIN
PEOPLE AND DIFFERENT LADDERS
A PROGRAM MANAGER AT GOOGLE IN
NAIROBI.
DELL AND MICROSOFT ARE HERE,
TOO, ALL BECAUSE OF THE MOBILE
TECH BOOM.
>> EVERYONE HAS ONE.
AND BECAUSE EVERYONE HAS ONE
IT'S TRANSFORMING HOW PEOPLE D
MANY OTHER THINGS BEYOND JUS
COMMUNICATE.
THEY START OFF WITH JUST
COMMUNICATION TOOLS.
BUT THEY'VE BEEN USED FROM
EVERYTHING TO SENDING MONEY BACK
TO PEOPLE OUT OF COUNTRY
TO PAYMENTS.
>> Reporter: 180 MILES NORTH O
NAIROBI, KATHRYN SURVEYS HER
LATEST BANANA CROP
HER PHONE IS ALWAYS WITH HER
BECAUSE IT HELPS TRACK THE
FLUCTUATING PRICES ON TH
MARKET
WITH AN APP CALLED M-FARM.
>> I GO TO THE M-FAR
APPLICATION.
AND I SIMPLY QUERY ON THE PRIC
FOR BANANAS.
I THEN AWAIT THE ANSWER WHIC
WOULD GIVE ME THE PRICE FO
BANANAS WITHIN NAIROBI
>> Reporter: SO IT'S AS SIMPLE
AS PUNCHING IN A NUMBER AN
ASKING A QUESTION?
>> YEAH.
IT'S A MATTER OF EFFICIENCY.
REALLY LEVERAGING ON THE BES
FOR THIS COUNTRY
SO THAT YOU DON'T HAVE TO SPEN
ALL YOUR TIME AND MONEY GOING TO
NAIROBI TO FIND WHAT THE MARKETS
ARE LIKE
YOU CAN GET THE SCENARIO RIGHT
WHERE YOU ARE.
>> Reporter: IT MEANS KATHRY
REGULARLY DOUBLES HER PROFIT
BECAUSE SHE DOESN'T NEED TO RELY
AS MUCH ON THE MIDDLE MAN.
>> AND THEN ABLE TO GO TO TH
SAME M-FARM AND ADVERTISE MY
COMMODITIES.
THAT I'VE GOT BANANAS TO SELL AT
20 SHILLINGS PER KILO.
BECAUSE I KNOW OF THE MARKET
SO, YES, IT DOES HELP ME MAK
MORE MONEY
>> Reporter: SO THERE IS A
ENORMOUS APPETITE FOR APPS
AND THE MOBILE BOOM IS FUELING A
WHOLE NEW GENERATION OF YOUN
AFRICAN ENTREPRENEURS.
MOBY IS ONE OF MANY TECH
START-UPS IN KENYA SPECIALIZIN
IN THE APP DEVELOPMENT
IT'S ABOUT TO RELEASE ITS LATEST
APP DESIGNED TO HELP PARENTS
FIND MISSING CHILDREN.
AT POLICE STATIONS AND CHILDRENS
HOMES ACROSS THE COUNTRY
THE MAJORITY OF KENYANS DON'
HAVE SMART PHONES, SO MANY O
THE SERVICES AND APPS ARE TH
TEXTING KIND
LOW TECH, BUT EFFECTIVE.
ONE HELPS PEOPLE COPE WITH
NAIROBI'S TRAFFIC.
>> COMBINED, ALL THAT IS A LOT
OF MONEY TO THE ECONOMY.
>> Reporter: HE WAS SO TIRED O
THE TRAFFIC HE DESIGNED
PROGRAM TO TRY TO BEAT IT.
SEND A TEXT AND YOU GET
TRAFFIC REPORT
>> WHAT OUR APP DOES I
BASICALLY ROUTE PEOPLE FRO
TROUBLED ROADS TO LESS TROUBLE
ROADS.
>> Reporter: THERE'S EVEN AN APP
FOR MAKING A BUS RIDE EASIER AND
SAFER.
CATCHING A BUS IS USUALL
CHAOTIC AND COMPLICATED.
TRYING TO BUY A TICKET FRAUGHT
WITH DIFFICULTY.
THIS MAKES IT INCREDIBLY EASY.
THE RIDER BUYS A CARD BEFORE O
AFTER GETTING ON THE BUS
THAT CARD IS LOADED WITH MONEY
WHICH CAN LAST DAYS OR EVE
WEEKS.
THE CONDUCTOR THEN USES
SPECIAL APP IN HIS SMART PHONE
TO TAP THE CARD AND CHARGE THE
FARE
>> IT'S CONVENIENT
BECAUSE SOMETIMES YOU HAVE T
LOOK AROUND FOR CHANGE
SO THIS PAY IS DIRECT.
>> Reporter: THE IDEA CAME FRO
GOOGLE'S OFFICE IN NAIROBI
IT IS TRANSFORMING THE WAY BUS
OWNS DO BUSINESS BEFORE IT WAS
VIRTUALLY IMPOSSIBLE FOR THEM TO
TRACK WHAT THEY WERE MAKING.
>> ABLE TO GET A DASH BOAR
READING IN REALTIME.
HOW MUCH
THE CASE WHERE THE BUS OWNER
DOWN LOADED THE SALES REPORT FOR
A COUPLE OF DAYS, WERE ABLE TO
PRESENT THIS TO THE BANK
AND THEY'RE ABLE TO SEE CASH
FLOW
STRONG EVIDENCE OF CASH FLOW
>> Reporter: COMMUTERS ARE
BENEFITTING IN OTHER WAYS.
NAIROBI'S MINI BUS TAXIS NOW
FEATURE WI-FI, FREE WI-FI.
>> VERY DIFFERENT.
>> Reporter: BUT IT'S WORTH IT
BECAUSE YOU GET MORE CUSTOMERS
>> YEAH, YEAH.
>> WHEN YOU'RE ON WI-FI, YOU'R
MORE LIKELY TO DO WHAT YOU WIS
TO DO.
AND IT'S VERY INTERESTING.
YOU'RE DOING YOUR BUSINESS O
THE NET.
>> Reporter: TECHNOLOGY HAS EVEN
REACHES SOME OF THE POORES
SLUMS OF NAIROBI
THIS IS GORAGOCHO.
HOME TO OVER 100,000 PEOPLE.
PEOPLE HERE DON'T HAVE MUCH.
UNEMPLOYMENT IS VERY HIGH.
AND IF THEY DO HAVE A JOB, THE
EARN VERY LITTLE
BUT VIRTUALLY EVERYONE HAS ONE
OF THESE
INEXPENSIVE BRANDS BUT THEY AR
JUST AS CONNECTED AS EVERYON
ELSE
LIVES ARE BEING SAVED HERE
PREGNANT WOMEN HERE CAN ACCESS
AN SMF TEXT BASED SERVICE TO
KEEP IN TOUCH WITH A MIDWIFE
HERE
SHE MONITORS THEIR PROGRESS.
I FEEL SAFE AND COMFORTABLE, SHE
SAYS
I CAN GET THESE SERVICES
ESPECIALLY WHEN I'M NOT FEELIN
WELL
I KNOW THE SUPPORT IS HERE, SH
SAYS
AND GRACE USES HER OWN CEL
PHONE TO TIE INTO A NEW SYSTEM
MONITORED 24/7 BY A DOCTOR
>>
>> BREATHING FROM THE UMBILICA
CORD
AND THAT BABY HAD JUST BEE
BORN
SO MY INTERVENTION NOW WILL BE
SENDING TO G THERE WITH AN
AMBULANCE.
>> Reporter: THE INFAN
MORTALITY RATE IN KENYA AS A
WHOLE AND IN THE SLUMS I
PARTICULAR IS AMONG THE HIGHES
IN THE WORLD
THIS TEXTING SERVICE IS MAKING A
DIFFERENCE
>> WE NEVER KNEW THAT TEXT
MESSAGE COULD SAVE LIVES
UNTIL WE STARTED THIS.
>> Reporter: SAVING LIVES AN
CHANGING LIVES
TECHNOLOGY IN THE MOBILE PHONE
IS HAVING A PROFOUND IMPACT ON
THE WAY PEOPLE DO THINGS I
AFRICA
>>> HOW ARE SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURS
CHANGING THE WORLD
VISIT NEWSHOUR.ORG
>>> THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF NEWS
RECENTLY ABOUT MAJOR
CORPORATIONS SCALING BACK ON
THEIR CONTRIBUTIONS TO THEIR
EMPLOYEES' 401(k) PLANS.
IT MAKES A MAJOR IMPACT FO
PLANNING FOR RETIREMENT.
SO THIS WEEK THE STORY WAS ABOUT
AOL CEO ROLLING BACK PLANS THE
COMPANY MADE TO GIVE 401(k
MONEY AT ONE POINT IN THE YEAR
INSTEAD OF WITH EACH PAYCHECK.
>> THERE'S THE RETENTION SIDE OF
IT AND THE INVESTMENT SIDE O
IT
THE RETENTION SIDE OF IT IS YO
CAN'T LEAVE YOUR JOB IF YOU'RE
WAITING TO GET YOUR 401(k) MONEY
OR YOU'RE GOING TO LEAVE AND NOT
GET THAT MONEY BECAUSE THEY'RE
PAYING AT THE END OF THE YEAR.
THAT'S NUMBER ONE.
NUMBER TWO, THERE'S TH
INVESTMENT PART OF IT.
AND IT'S REALLY TECHNICAL, BUT
THERE'S DOLLAR COST AVERAGIN
THAT INVESTMENT GURUS LIKE M
PAY ATTENTION TO
YOU PUT A LITTLE IN THE MARKET
WITH EACH PAYCHECK
IF YOU'RE NOT ONLY GETTING THA
AT THE END OF THE YEAR, IT MEANS
YOU'RE NOT RIDING THE UP AND
DOWN MOVEMENTS OF THE MARKET
YOU'RE REALLY TAKING A
INVESTMENT RISK BY PUTTING A
LARGE SUM OF MONEY IN THERE.
>> WHAT ARE OTHER COMPANIE
DOING TO CHANGE THEIR RETIREMENT
OR 401(k) PLANS FOR PEOPLE
>> SO THERE ARE A LOT OF
DIFFERENT THINGS AT PLAY HER
RIGHT NOW.
CLEARLY THE UPROAR AGAINST AOL
HAS A GREAT OUTCOME FOR WORKERS.
BUT IBM WAS ACTUALLY THE FIRST
COMPANY TO DO THIS OR THE FIRS
BIG COMPANY THAT THEY WERE GOING
TO PAY ONCE A YEAR
THAT SAID, IBM HAS BIG BENEFITS.
THEY RANK HIGHLY
SO FOR THOSE WORKERS, IT DOESN'T
HURT AS MUCH
BUT THERE ARE A LOT OF DIFFERENT
THINGS HAPPENING HERE.
TECH COMPANIES, FOR EXAMPLE.
A COMPANY LIKE FACEBOOK DOESN'
OFFER A 401(k) MATCH CURRENTLY
ALTHOUGH THEY DO PLAN TO OFFER
ONE LATER IN THE YEAR.
>> AND WHAT ABOUT COMPANIE
OFFERING MATCHES
HAS THAT CHANGED OVER TIME
>> DURING THE BUST WHEN TH
MARKET WENT BELLY UP, A LOT OF
COMPANIES HAD TO SCALE BACK ON
THEIR BENEFITS TO KEEP THE
LIGHTS ON.
THERE WERE A LOT OF COMPANIE
WHO STOPPED OFFERING THAT MATCH.
IT HAS RATCHETED UP AS THE
MARKET IMPROVED.
BUT FOR EXAMPLE IN THE BANKING
SECTOR, A LOT OF COMPANIES W
WERE TALKING ABOUT NOT GETTING
THAT MATCH, THEY'RE NOT GETTIN
IT UNTIL THE END OF THE YEAR TOO
IN THAT INDUSTRY
IT CAN BE VERY INDUSTR
SPECIFIC
>> WHAT ABOUT THIS SHIFT O
SAVING MORE?
ONE SAID 401(k) WOULD ENCOURAG
PEOPLE TO SAVE MORE MONEY.
NOW WE'VE HAD THAT RUNNING FOR
20 30R YEARS
HOW'S THE DATA PAN OUT
>> IT'S NOT WORKING VERY WELL.
THE AVERAGE WORKER HAS A PRETT
LOW RETIREMENT BALANCE
BUT PEOPLE WORKING AT BI
COMPANIES THAT ARE SERVICED BY
FIDELITY INVESTMENTS, FO
EXAMPLE, AT THE END OF THE
FOURTH QUARTER THEY HAD ABOU
$86,000, THE AVERAGE WORKER IN
THEIR PLAN
THAT'S NOT ENOUGH MONEY TO D
VERY MUCH.
AND CERTAINLY NOT GOING TO PAY
FOR A NURSING HOME FOR THE YEAR.
>> IS THAN IT DOES THE
EXECUTIVES WHO DON'T CARE MUCH
ABOUT WHETHER THE COMPANY IS
MATCHING THEIR 401(k).
>> A COMPANY LIKE WALMART, FOR
EXAMPLE, THE AVERAGE WORKE
THERE HAS A BALANCE LESS THA
$20,000.
>> AND SO HOW DOES THAT ADD UP
OVER TO BE A BIG DIFFERENCE BY
THE TIME YOU RETIRE?
>> IT'S A HUGE DIFFERENCE BY THE
TIME YOU RETIRE.
AND THERE ARE SOME CHANGES
HAPPENING.
A LOT OF COMPANIES ARE
AUTOMATICALLY INVESTING YOU IN A
RETIREMENT ACCOUNT RIGHT NOW T
REALLY NUDGE YOU TO PUT MONE
IN
BUT THE PROBLEM IS THAT PEOPLE
ARE JUST PUTTING IN ENOUGH MONEY
TO GET THE MATCH
THEY'RE NOT PUTTING THAT MAXIMUM
AMOUNT WHICH IS $17,500 THIS
YEAR AND IT CHANGES EVERY YEAR
IT'S MORE IF YOU'RE NEARIN
RETIREMENT
BUT IT'S NOT ENOUGH MONEY TO
LIVE ON, FRANKLY
>> SO IF YOU SHORTCHANGE
YOURSELF OR SAVE $200 OR WHA
NOW, HOW DOES THAT COMPOUNDING
INTEREST ADD UP OVER TIME?
>> SOME EXAMPLES PUT TOGETHER BY
VANGUARD, THEY FOUND THE AVERAGE
WORKER IS PROBABLY GOING TO HAVE
ABOUT $50,000 LESS AT THE END OF
EVERYTHING IF THE COMPANY DI
WHAT AOL DID AND JUST DO ONCE
YEAR PAYOUTS
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH
>> THANK YOU
>>> THIS IS "PBS NEWS HOUR
WEEKEND" SATURDAY.
>> FINALLY TONIGHT, FROM BELGIUM
WORD THAT PARLIAMENT HAS ALLOWED
EUTHANASIA FOR TERMINALLY IL
CHILDREN THAT WANT TO DIE.
IT WILL BECOME LAW ONCE THE KING
SIGNS IT
>> Reporter: TO A LONE SHOUT
BELGIUM BECAME THE FIRST T
ALLOW DOCTORS TO END A CHILD'S
LIFE
IF THE CHILD SAYS THEY WANT TO
DIE AND THEIR CONDITION IS
WITHOUT HOME
AS A RESULT THE SICKEST CHILDREN
CAN OPT FOR A LETHAL INJECTION
THEY HAVE TO UNDERSTAND WHAT
THEY'RE DOING AND ARE SUPPORTE
BY THEIR PARENTS
DOCTORS DON'T EXPECT MANY TO
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE NEW LAW.
BUT THEY WISH TO HELP THOSE WH
FEEL THAT THEY CAN'T CONTINUE.
THEY SAY THAT SUSTAINED A LIFE
THAT IS WITHOUT HOPE AND FILLE
WITH SUFFERING IS A FAR BIGGER
TRAGEDY THAN ENDING ONE.
THAT VIEW IS NOT SHARED BY
ISABELLA AND HER FAMILY.
SIX YEARS AGO AGE 12 SHE WAS
DIAGNOSED WITH HUNTINGTON'
DISEASE.
SHE'S NOW IN PHYSICAL AND MENTAL
DECLINE.
FOR ME IS CHILD CANNOT ASK FOR
ITS LIFE TO BE TERMINATED, HER
MOTHER TOLD ME
ISABELLA IS SICK, BUT SHE HAS NO
WISH TO END HER LIFE
NOR DO I
OTHERS HAVE DEMONSTRATED THEIR
OPPOSITION, BUT POLLIN
SUGGESTS 3/4 OF THE POPULATION
SUPPORT THE LAW.
HOWEVER, SOME DOCTORS QUESTION
IF IT'S NECESSARY.
>> WE HAVE SO MANY POSSIBILITIES
TO RELIEVE PATIENTS FROM THEIR
PAIN THAT YOU DON'T HAVE T
PROCEED FOR EUTHANASIA
>> Reporter: THERE IS NO AGE
LIMIT ON SUFFERING
AND NOW NO AGE LIMIT ON ENDING
IT
MANY WILL SHARE ISABELLA'S WIS
FOR LIFE, BUT THOSE WHO DO NOT
HAVE ANOTHER OPTION.
BRUSSELS
>>> JOIN US TOMORROW ON AIR AN
ONLINE
HOW MEXICO IS BATTLING OBESITY
BY RAISING TAXES ON FOODS LOADED
WITH SATURATED FATS AND SUGARS
>> PROGRAMS TO CHANGE THE HABITS
OF PEOPLE.
BUT WE'RE ALSO USING INCENTIVES.
TAXES CAN BE POWERFU
INCENTIVES
>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION.
I'M HARVEY SREENIVASAN
THANKS FOR WATCHING.